# FinalProject

Project Description: My game that I have made is a treasure hunting game. You will run around the map looking for four keys which open each of the doors, however, if you open them in the wrong order you might just run out of keys, so you have to be careful and think about what doors to open. The game runs at a steady 60fps and displays a few houses, forests, and rivers/lakes on the map. The code itself uses a variety of methods to establish tile/object placement and uses simple movement mechanics seen in the KeyHandler file that allows the character to move around the map. I also implemented collision mechanics using a boolean to make the tile impassable. Additionally the map is made with a TXT file found under the resources tab. I made it by numbering each of my tiles and then just coming up with an idea of what I wanted it to look like and then making the corrosponding number pattern.


Update 1: My project currently produces a JFrame labled "Keegan's Game" with a JPanel attached to it. I then made sure the sizing was right for what I wanted. Right now I have just finished the game loop using a delta time loop. This ensures that the game should properly run at 60 frames per second without any bugs. I also added a key handler which uses the WASD keys to move the player around. So far the player is just a white box and the background is black but my next step will be to make both a character for my game as well as world tiles. I also have programmed it to display the FPS in the terminal, and the programming in running at a smooth 60 FPS right now. The immediate next step is to create a character, but then I will be working on the world and a camera to follow the characters movements in the world. 

Update 2: After a painstakingly long time, I have finally figured out how to implement my character movements, changing the sprite each time a different key is used. My original issue was I used "case" but forgot to add "break" meaning I was always stuck one sprite. I finally realized this after maybe 30 minutes and it was smooth sailing from there

Update 3: I have successfully implemented a map. I used a txt file in and numbered each tile, then I just made a simple 16x12 map using my set numbers. The program is using some while loops in order to accomplish the construction of the map. Automating it is much easier than drawing each part individually, so I opted for that route. The next goal will to build a larger world map, and hopefully create a camera that will follow you around as you move throughout the world. 

Update 4: There is now a large world map and I have implemented collision, which ensure the player cannot walk through certain objects like walls and water. Right now I am currently creating a new world map that provides some enhancements and makes the world feel less empty. The goal right now is to make the keys into collectables which are then used to open doors and such.

Update 5: I have completed the new map as well as making the keys collectible. The keys are now used to open the doors and you lose a key each time you open a new door. There are currently 4 keys and four doors on the map. There are also 2 chest objects, however they are more for design aestheic and do not serve a functional purpose. The map has also been completely updated, with more houses, and a lot more trees to make it feel more alive and less plain. 